Add draft content for migrating to dockerd (#32131)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/migrating-from-dockershim/migrate-dockershim-dockerd.md

---
title: "Migrate Docker Engine nodes from dockershim to cri-dockerd"
weight: 9
content_type: task 
---

{{% thirdparty-content %}}

This page shows you how to migrate your Docker Engine nodes to use `cri-dockerd`
instead of dockershim. Follow these steps if your clusters run Kubernetes 1.23
or earlier and you want to continue using Docker as your container runtime after

> you upgrade to Kubernetes 1.24 and later.

Reviewer: These steps are appropriate for people who want to move ahead of v1.24, but they're also appropriate for considerate folk who are moving off the deprecated dockershim just because it's deprecated.

> ## Overview

Reviewer: Early feedback: we try to avoid having an “overview” heading. How about:
```suggestion
## Context
```

In Kubernetes 1.23 and earlier, Docker Engine used a component called the

> dockershim to interact with Kubernetes system components such as the kubelet. In
> Kubernetes 1.24, the dockershim is being removed. A third-party replacement,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dockershim to interact with Kubernetes system components such as the kubelet.
The dockershim component is deprecated and will be removed in the Kubernetes v1.24
release. A third-party replacement,
```

Reviewer: Maybe we should have two changes? One for now, and new wording for the v1.24 docs?

If the challenge is trying too hard to write timeless docs, the easier option might be to make multiple changes.

> `cri-dockerd`, is available if you want to continue using Docker Engine in
> Kubernetes 1.24 and later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`cri-dockerd`, is available. The `cri-dockerd` adapter allows you to use Docker
Engine via the (supported)
{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="cri" text="Container Runtime Interface">}}.
```

{{<note>}}
If you already use `cri-dockerd`, you aren't affected by the dockershim removal.
Before you begin, [Check whether your nodes use the dockershim](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/migrating-from-dockershim/find-out-runtime-you-use/).
{{</note>}}

> If you do need to migrate to `cri-dockerd` so that you can continue using Docker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to migrate to `cri-dockerd` so that you can continue using Docker Engine
```

You should perform the following steps for each node that you want to migrate
off dockershim.

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}

*   [Install and start the `cri-dockerd` service on each node](https://github.com/mirantis/cri-dockerd#build-and-install).

## Cordon and drain the node

1.  Cordon the node to stop new Pods scheduling on it:

    ```shell
    kubectl cordon <NODE_NAME>
    ```
    Replace `<NODE_NAME>` with the name of the node.

1.  Drain the node to safely evict running Pods: 

    ```shell
    kubectl drain <NODE_NAME> \
        --ignore-daemonsets
    ```

## Configure the kubelet to use cri-dockerd

The following steps apply to clusters set up using the kubeadm tool. If you use
a different tool, you should modify the kubelet using the configuration
instructions for that tool.

1.  Open `/var/lib/kubelet/kubeadm-flags.env` 
1.  Modify the `--container-runtime-endpoint` flag to
    `unix:///var/run/cri-dockerd.sock`.

`kubeadm` stores the socket for each host as an annotation in the `Node` object
for the host. To change the annotation:

1.  Open the `admin.conf` file to edit the `Node` object:

    ```shell
    kubectl edit no <NODE_NAME>
    ```

>     This command opens the file in a text editor.

Reviewer: To me, these lines don't yet make sense.

Reviewer 2: `kubectl edit no <NODE_NAME>` uses the `admin.conf` to connect the the api-server and edit the node object.

you can remove / edit the line:
> Open the `admin.conf` file to edit the `Node` object:

Author: Updated. PTAL and tell me if it's still off-looking: 

For each node, `kubeadm` stores the socket as an annotation in the `Node` object
for that node. To change the annotation:

1. Edit the `Node` object: 

    ```shell
    kubectl edit no <NODE_NAME>
    ```
    This command opens the `admin.conf` file in a text editor. This file is only
    available on control plane nodes.

Reviewer: I haven't checked, but: I'm fairly sure that `admin.conf` is a configuration file for the `kubectl` command line tool.
If that's right then I'd expect the command to run is:
```shell
KUBECONFIG=/path/to/admin.conf kubectl edit node <nodename>
```

Reviewer: and the thing that gets opened in a text editor is a YAML representation of that Node.

Author: I like that description, makes sense. I'll wait for @neolit123 to confirm and then change the content to reflect that :) thanks for the blazing fast reviews y'all

Reviewer 2: What @sftim is saying is correct.

1.  Change `kubeadm.alpha.kubernetes.io/cri-socket` from
    `/var/run/dockershim.sock` to `unix:///var/run/cri-dockerd.sock`.
1.  Save the changes. The `Node` object is updated on save.

## Restart the kubelet

```shell
systemctl start kubelet
```

## Verify that the node is healthy

To check whether the node uses the `cri-dockerd` endpoint, TODO

## Uncordon the node

Uncordon the node to let Pods schedule on it: 

```shell
kubectl uncordon <NODE_NAME>
```

## {{% heading "whatsnext" %}}

> *   [Read about the dockershim removal](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2022/02/17/dockershim-faq/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Read the [dockershim removal FAQ]/dockershim)
```

> *   [Learn how to migrate to the containerd runtime](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/migrating-from-dockershim/change-runtime-containerd/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Learn how to migrate from dockershim (with Docker Engine) to containerd](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/migrating-from-dockershim/change-runtime-containerd/)
```

## What is cri-dockerd? {#what-is-cri-dockerd}

In Kubernetes 1.23 and earlier, Docker Engine used a component called the
dockershim to interact with Kubernetes system components such as the kubelet.
The dockershim component is deprecated and will be removed in Kubernetes 1.24. A
third-party replacement, `cri-dockerd`, is available. The `cri-dockerd` adapter
lets you use Docker Engine through the {{<glossary_tooltip term_id="cri" text="Container Runtime Interface">}}.

{{<note>}}
If you already use `cri-dockerd`, you aren't affected by the dockershim removal.
Before you begin, [Check whether your nodes use the dockershim](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/migrating-from-dockershim/find-out-runtime-you-use/).
{{</note>}}

If you want to migrate to `cri-dockerd` so that you can continue using Docker
Engine as your container runtime, you should do the following for each affected
node: 

1.  Install `cri-dockerd`.
1.  Cordon and drain the node.
1.  Configure the kubelet to use `cri-dockerd`. 
1.  Restart the kubelet.
1.  Verify that the node is healthy.

Test the migration on non-critical nodes first.

You should perform the following steps for each node that you want to migrate

> off dockershim.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
to cri-dockerd.
```

Reviewer 3: (or `from dockershim`)
